---
layout: post
title: Amazon Echo
---

In November 2014, Amazon unveiled <highlight>Echo, a Siri-in-a-can personal assistant for the home</highlight>, and firmly placed itself as a unique competitor amongst other tech giants such as Apple with Siri, Microsoft with Cortana, and Google Now in the space of virtual personal assistants.

Amazon&#39;s Echo is a revolutionary step into the future of <highlight>ambient intelligence and smart homes controlled entirely by voice</highlight>. Rather than confining itself to the mobile space, Echo is marketed as a luxury household item that improves the lives of tech-savvy families via Amazon&#39;s far-field voice recognition and Echo&#39;s personal assistant named Alexa. Alexa strives to increase household efficiency through two main functions: <highlight>(1) virtual personal assistance and (2) smart voice-controlled speakers</highlight>.

As a voice-activated virtual assistant, Alexa can do almost everything Siri, M, Cortana, and Google can do, all while doubling as a hands-free smart speaker system for the home. Alexa can answer questions, read books from Audible, give sports score updates, read the news, add items to a to-do list, seamlessly integrate with various smart technologies such as Belkin WeMo, the Philips Hue lightbulb, and IFTTT programming and more. In addition, Alexa operates as a wireless music speaker and can play music from Amazon Music, iHeartRadio, and TuneIn.

Allowing users to access all of these functions without pushing a single button or holding a mobile device is satisfying, but Amazon Echo still falls short in two ways: <highlight>(1) lack of personalization and (2) confining the product to home users</highlight>. Because Echo&#39;s interface is voice activated by anyone who summons “Alexa”, without differentiating between individuals within the home, Amazon <highlight>loses the opportunity to capture valuable data on trends of specific family members and their individual requests</highlight>. Secondly, by positioning Echo as personal assistant for the home, Amazon <highlight>loses on significant opportunities to expand into similar home away from homes, such as hotels, retirement homes, and hospitals</highlight>.

As a relatively new product, there are obvious improvements to be made in the coming iterations of the Amazon Echo. In order to increase functionality, Echo could work alongside mobile applications like Uber to dominate the entire home experience up until when an individual leaves the home, <highlight>integrate with more smart devices</highlight> such as Nest or Wink to increase connectedness within a home, and add larger data repositories such as Google Search to process more complex requests and queries. However, in order for Amazon Echo to become the Siri or Google Now of the home, its two main shortcomings must be addressed.

First, to increase personalization, Amazon Echo should work to <highlight>create individual profiles about the people living inside a home, separating the various types of people behind a single Amazon Prime account</highlight>. Through unique profiles, Alexa can gather a trove of data that it can use to answer questions, make recommendations, and understand consumer behavior of specific individuals. Because Echo is already considered a reliable voice recognition device, this improvement can be more easily addressed in the short term. Secondly, <highlight>to capitalize on B2B opportunities, Amazon Echo should enter the market of customer service by partnering with luxury hotels, hospitals, retirement homes and various other home away from homes</highlight>. For luxury hotels, the Echo could be placed in each hotel room to address the questions and concerns of guests or provide recommendations for places to visit or eat and eliminate the need for guests to manually phone the front desk. Alternatively, for retirement homes, Alexa could be used to attend to the needs of patients for medical or mobility assistance by partnering with Emergency Service companies. However, this improvement would be part of a long-term vision for Alexa, given that initial focus should be directed towards mastering virtual assistance within the home. By addressing these shortcomings, Amazon Echo can competitively differentiate itself in the space of personal assistants within homes of all kind and gain access to a wealth of information to make better recommendations and more individualized searches as a means to strengthen Amazon&#39;s underlying e-commerce business.

Though Echo indirectly competes with other personal assistants and smart speaker systems in the market, it is a revolutionary hybrid of the two. A small company Ivee recently claimed to produce an improved $99 Echo equivalent because of its compatibility with products such as Logitech Harmony, Lowe&#39;s Iris, Spotify and Uber. However, given that Ivee&#39;s product is not expected to ship until June 2016, <highlight>Amazon&#39;s first mover advantage</highlight> lends it plenty of time to perfect and iterate on Alexa and Echo until then. As a personal assistant, Alexa competes with Microsoft&#39;s Cortana, Apple&#39;s Siri, Google Now, and Facebook&#39;s newly released M. Of the estimated 190.3 million US citizens who own smart phones, Android controls 51.6% OS market share, with Apple coming in a close second at 44.1% of the market and Microsoft trailing far behind with 2.9% of the OS market. Facebook continues to dominate the mobile messaging platform with 700 million Messenger users. As a smart music player, Echo competes with Jawbone&#39;s Big Jambox and Sonos. However, Echo is revolutionary in that it is a hybrid of the two— a wireless music speaker and a virtual assistant— though not yet mastering either function. The sound quality and surround effects of the Echo&#39;s speaker system do not rival those of Jawbone and Sonos, and Alexa is limited as a personal assistant compared to Siri, Cortana and Google Now, unable to fulfill commands such as texting or calling and lacking in an efficient payment system such as Apple Pay. Moving towards an era of instant gratification, there are <highlight>two key challenges</highlight> for Amazon and Alexa: <highlight>(1) As Alexa becomes smarter and is able to manage more complex tasks, such as planning the details of a vacation, how will it manage expectations for services that inherently take longer? and (2) How will Alexa gain access to more information about its users, such as hobbies and friends, that extend beyond simple questions and requests of its users?</highlight> To address the first concern, other companies like Facebook and Operator are tackling this problem by adding a human component, but a scalability problem subsequently arises. To address the second concern, other companies like Apple and Google are leveraging their own operating systems.

Amazon can choose to take the Echo in many different directions, but can potentially revolutionize its space&#39;s competitive climate by becoming the Google Now of the increasingly connected home. By positioning itself in the home and linking to other products, <highlight>Amazon will gain valuable access to massive amounts of data as personal assistants have the potential to infringe on the market share of search engines, and may even eliminate search altogether</highlight>.
